On the 26th of April, 1986, as a result of human error there was a total
meltdown of reactor 4 of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine.

Because of this meltdown, the people of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Austria,
Slovenia, Moldova, Romania, Greece and even the UK was exposed to poisonous
radioactive fallout that drifted off from the plant.

Because of the Soviet Union being reluctant to show weakness during the peak of
the Cold War, they kept the meltdown a secret, not telling, warning or
evacuating anyone until it was far too late.  The town of Pripyat, immediately
adjacent to Chernobyl was only evacuated whole days after the meltdown of the
plant. They were already dead. Many developing cancers and other serious medical
issues and with some unlucky individuals quite literally _melting_. Their skin
and internal organs turning into jelly while they were still alive.

The town of Pripyat and Chernobyl were kind of cordoned off by the government
urging people to stay away from a place now called "the exclusion zone".
Although difficult to get in, it's not really illegal to get into parts of the
zone. The town of Pripyat commonly has adventurers visiting it's long abandoned
buildings -- But the Chernobyl reactor itself is still illegal to get into
(which doesn't deterr the bravest of stalkers). The Chernobyl reactor will
remain dangerously radioactive for about 24 thousand years.


After the meltdown, a collection of radioactive isotopes melted together with
graphite, concrete, and metal to form a kind of radioactive lava. This resulted
in a large mass of lava nicknamed "The Elephants Foot" melting through the floor
and seeping into the basement of the Chernobyl Plant.

A substance so terrifyingly radioactive that standing in the same room as it for
a few minutes is a death sentence.  In one case, after news about the Chernobyl
Meltdown had spread, a professor in the United States wanted to see what the
Elephants Foot looked like, so he sent a letter to some cleanup crew workers to
take a picture of it. They sent it back with the news that the man who had gone
into the room to take the picture had died only a few months after. Taking a
picture of this thing cost a man his life.


In the years following the Chernobyl disaster, Ukrainian and Soviet forces
utilized a group of incredibly dedicated and incredibly unlucky individuals
called 'liquidators'.  These liquidators laid down their lives to run into the
plant equipped with almost nothing but a shovel (the lucky ones wearing gas
masks and hazmat equipment) to go and clear radiactive dust and rocks from the
roofs and hallways of the plant. Most, if not all of the liquidators developed
cancers and terminal illnesses and died strange and painful deaths within only a
few years. The lucky ones died in only a few weeks.


14 years before the Chernobyl distaster, Soviet-Russian science fiction writers
Arkady and Boris Strugatsky wrote 'Roadside Picnic'. A story in which an
extra-terrestrial life form lands somewhere in the Soviet Union, leaving behind
a zone of land in which the normal laws of physical reality begin to break,
leading the Soviet Union to cordon it off from everyone. This leads to certain
skilled, crafty, brave, reckless, or just plain stupid outlaws named 'stalkers'
venture into the zone for search of strange and valuable artifacts to sell them
illegally for profit.

The zone in Roadside Picnic is a place with an allure that is difficult to
deny. Full of strange beauty as well bizarre and brutal dangers. There are also
legends perpetuated by stalkers saying that there is a 'Wish Granter' somewhere
deep in the zone, with only the most lucky or reckless individuals being able to
get to it.

In 1979, Roadside Picnic was adapted into a movie titled 'Stalker'. The combined
influence of Roadside Picnic and the new movie adaptation was so great that it
just became part of the public consciousness in the Soviet Union. Once the
Chernobyl distaster occured, people began to draw comparisons between the story
and reality, leading to the Liquidators who worked in the exclusion zone as well
as thrill-seeking and reckless urban explorers being nicknamed 'stalkers' by the
public.


In 2007, as a result of the culture and folk-lore that had built up surrounding
the bizarre Chernobyl disaster, Ukrainian game studio: GSC Game World released a
game titled S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl. This game is a loose adaptation
of Roadside Picnic, the movie, Stalker, and the real world events of the
Chernobyl incident. The game takes place in an alternate history in which
following the meltdown of the nuclear plant, a second disaster of indeterminate
origin, (I speculate it was visited by a similar extra-terrestial force like in
the book) causes _strange_ things to begin occuring.

The radioactive fallout becomes more potent, leading to all sorts of mutated
monstrosities to roam The Zone in place of normal wildlife, as well as strange
places where the laws of reality stop applying called 'anomalies'. Stepping into
an anomaly will lead to being flung around and landing somewhere else, being lit
on fire, being electrocuted, or just exploding in a bloody mess.

From the anomalies, strange and incredibly valuable artifacts form, leading the
most daring STALKERS to carefully dodge certain doom in between anomalies to try
and grab one of these artifacts. "Between an anomaly and a bullet, I'd rather
choose the latter".

The Zone attracts all sorts of people, for monetary, scientific, or personal
reasons with all the different gangs and factions inhabiting The Zone pretty
much going to war with each other. Even in such a naturally dangerous place like
The Zone, in which team-work is crucial to survival, humanity finds a way to
become it's own worst enemy.
